^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The Road Less Traveled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Discipline
#############
Problems and Pain
========================
Life is difficult.
This is a great truth, one of the greatest truth.
The first of "Four Noble Truths" which Buddha taught was "Life is suffering".

人生苦难重重。
这是个伟大的真理，是世界上最伟大的真理之一。

It is a great truth because once we truly see this truth, we transcend it. Once we truly know that life is difficult--once we truly understand and accept it--then life is no longer difficult. Beacuse once it is accepted, the fact that life is difficult no longer matters.

它的伟大，在于我们一旦想通了它，就能实现人生的超越。只要我们知道人生是艰难的———只要我们真正理解并接受这一点，那么我们就再也不会对人生的苦难耿耿于怀了。因为一旦它被接受，生活困难这个事实就不再重要了

Most do not see this truth that life is difficult. Instead they moan more or less incessantly, noisily or subtly, about the enormity of their problems, their burdens, and their difficulties as if life were generally easy, as if life should be easy. They voice their belief, noisily or subtly, that their difficulties represent a unique kind of affliction that should not be and that has some how been especially visited upon them, or else upon their families, their tribe, their class, their nation, their race or even their species, and not upon others. I know about theis moaning because I have done my share.

然而，大部分人却不愿正视它。他们不是怨天尤人，就是抱怨自己生而不幸，他们总是哀叹无数麻烦、压力、困难与其为伴，他们认为自己是世界上最不幸的人，在他们看来，似乎人生本该既舒适又顺利。他们表达他们的坚信，吵闹的或巧妙地，他们的困难代表一种独特的苦难本不该出现，但是命运偏偏让他们自己、他们的家人、他们的部落、他们的社会阶级、他们的国家和民族乃至他们的人种吃苦受罪———我熟悉类似的抱怨和诅咒，因为我也曾有过同样的感受。

Life is a series of problems. Do we want to moan about them or solve them？ Do we want to teach out children to solve them?
人生是一连串的难题，面对它，你是哭哭啼啼，还是勇敢奋起？你是束手无策地哀叹，还是积极地想方设法解决问题，并慷慨地将方法传给后人呢？

Discipline is the basic set of tools we require to solve life's problems. Without discipline we can solve nothing. With only some discipline we can solve only some problems. With total dicipline we can solve all problems.
解决人生问题的首要方案，乃是自律，缺少了这一环，你不可能解决任何麻烦和困难。局部的自律只能解决局部的问题，完整的自律才能解决所有的问题。

What makes life difficult is that the process of confronting and solving problems is a painful one. Problems, depending upon their nature, evoke in us frustration or grief or sadness or loneliness or guilt or regret or anger or fear or anxiety or anguish or despair. Their are uncomfortable feelings, often very uncomfortable, often as painful as any kind of physical pain, sometimes equaling the very worst kind of physical pain. Indeed, it is because of the pain that events or conflicts engender in us all that we call them problems. And since life poses an endless series of problems, life is always difficult and is full of pain as well as joy.

生活之所以困难，是因为面对和解决问题的过程是痛苦的。问题的性质不同，会唤起我们沮丧、悲伤、悲伤、孤独、内疚、后悔、愤怒、恐惧、焦虑、痛苦或绝望的感觉。心灵之痛，通常和肉体之痛一样剧烈，甚至更加难以承受。事实上，正是因为事件或冲突在我们身上产生的痛苦，我们才称之为问题。正是因为各种问题接踵而来，我们才觉得人生苦难重重，悲喜参半。

Yet it is in this whole process of meeting and solving problems that life has its meaning. Problems are the cutting edge that distinguishes between success and failure. Problems call forth our courage and our wisdom; indeed, they create our courage and our wisdom. It is only because of problems that we grow mentally and spiritually. When we desire to encourage the growth of the human spirit, we challenge and encourage the human capacity to solbe problems, just as in school we deliberatly set problems for our children to solve. It is through the pain of confronting and resolving problems that we learn. As Benjamin Franklin said, "Those things that hurts, instruct." It is for this reason that wise people learn not to dread but actually to welcome problems and actully to welcome the pain of problems.

人生在一个面对问题并解决问题的过程中有了意义。问题能启发我们的智慧，激发我们的勇气；问题是我们成功与失败的分水岭。困难激发我们的勇气和智慧;事实上，它们创造了我们的勇气和智慧。正是因为这些问题，我们的精神和精神才得以成长。当我们想要鼓励人类精神的成长时，我们挑战并鼓励人类解决问题的能力，就像在学校里我们故意为我们的孩子设置问题来解决一样。正是通过直面和解决问题的痛苦，我们才得以学习。正如本杰明·富兰克林(BenjaminFranklin)所说:“惟有痛苦才会带来教益。”面对问题，聪明者不因害怕痛苦而选择逃避，而是迎上前去，直至将其战胜为止。

Most of us are not so wise. Fearing the pain involved, almost all of us, to a greater or lesser degree, attempt to avoid problems. We procrastinate, hoping that they will go away. We ignore them, forget them, so that by deadening ourselves to the pain we can forget the problems that cause the pain. We attempt to skirt around problems rather than meet them head on. We attempt to get out of them rather than suffer through them.

我们大多数人都不那么聪明。几乎我们所有人，或多或少，都因害怕所涉及的痛苦而试图避免问题。我们拖延，希望它们会消失。我们忽略他们，忘记他们，这样通过麻木我们自己的痛苦，我们可以忘记引起痛苦的问题。我们试图回避问题，而不是直接面对问题。我们试图摆脱它们，而不是忍受它们。

This tendency to avoid problems and the emotional suffering inherent in them is the primary basis of all human mental illness. Since most of us have this tendency to a greater or lesser degree, most of us are mentally ill to a greater or lesser degree, lacking complete mental health. Some of us will go to quite extraodinary lengths to avoid out problems and the suffering they cause, proceeding far afield from all that is clearly good and sensible in order to try to find an easy way out, building the most elaborate fantasies in which to live, sometimes to the total exclusion of reality. In the succinctly elegeant words of Carl Jung, "Neurosis is always a substitute for legitimate suffering."

规避问题和逃避痛苦的趋向，是人类心理疾病的根源。人人都有逃避问题的倾向，因此大多数人的心理健康都存在缺陷，真正的健康者寥寥无几。有的逃避问题者，宁可躲藏在头脑营造的虚幻世界里，甚至完全与现实脱节，这无异于作茧自缚。心理学大师荣格更是明确地指出：“神经症，是人生痛苦常见的替代品。”

But the substitute itself ultimately becomes more painful than the legitimate suffering it was designed to avoid. The neurosis itself becomes the biggest problem. True to form, many will then attempt to avoid this pain and this problem in turn, building layer upon layer of neuroses and begin -- usually with the helo og psychotherapy -- to learn how to experience legitimate suffering. In any case, when we avoid the legitimate suffering that results from dealing with problems, we also avoid the growth that problems demand from us. It is for the reason that in chronic mental illness we stop growing, we become stuck. And without healing, the human spirit begins to shrivel.

替代品带来的痛苦，甚至比逃避的痛苦更为强烈，神经症由此成了更棘手的问题。不少人为逃避新的问题和痛苦，不断以神经官能症为替代品，导致患上各种心理疾病。所幸也有人能坦然面对神经官能症，及时寻求心理医生帮助，以正确的心态面对人生正常的痛苦。事实上，如果不顾一切地逃避问题和痛苦，就会由此失去以解决问题推动心灵成长的契机，导致心理疾病越来越严重，而长期的、慢性的心理疾病，就会使人的心灵停止生长。不及时治疗，心灵就会萎缩和退化，心智就永远难以成熟。

Therefore let us inculcate in ourselves and in our children the means of achieving mental and spiritual health. By this I mean let us teach ourselves and our children the necessity for suffering and the value thereof, the need to face problems directly and to experience the pain involved. I have stated that discipline is the basic set of tools we require to solve life's problems. It will become clear that these tools are techniques of suffering, means by which we experience the pain of problems in such a way as to work them through and solve them successfully, learning and growing in the process. When we teach ourselves and our children discipline, we are teaching them and ourselves how to suffer and also how to grow.

因此，让我们向我们自己和我们的孩子灌输达到精神和精神健康的方法,人生的问题和痛苦具有非凡的价值。勇于承担责任，敢于面对困难，才能够使心灵变得健康。自律，是解决人生问题的首要工具，也是消除人生痛苦的重要手段。我的意思是，让我们教导自己和我们的孩子受苦的必要性及其价值，直接面对问题和经历相关痛苦的必要性。我已经说过，自律是我们解决生活问题的基本工具。很明显，这些工具是痛苦的技巧，是我们体验问题的痛苦的方式，从而解决问题并成功地解决问题，在这个过程中学习和成长。我们教育自己和孩子自律，也是在教育我们双方如何忍受痛苦，获得成长。

What are these tools, these techniques of suffering, these means of experiencing the pain of problems constructively that I call discipline? There are four: delaying of gratificaiton, acceptance of responsibility, dedication to truth, and balancing. As will be evident, there are not complex tools whose application demands entensive training, To the contrary, they are simpel tools. and almost all children are adept in their use by the age of ten. Yet presidents and kings will often forget to use them, to their own downfall. The problem lies not in the complexity of these tools but in the will to use them. For they are tools with which pain is confronted rather than avoided, and if one seeks to avoid legitimate suffering, then one will avoid the use of these tools. Therefore, after analyzing each of these tools, we shall in the next section examine the will to use them, which is love.

这些工具，这些折磨的技巧，这些建设性地体验问题痛苦的方法我称之为自律的是什么?所谓自律，是以积极而主动的态度，去解决人生痛苦的重要原则，主要包括四个方面：推迟满足感、承担责任、尊重事实、保持平衡。它们并不复杂，不过要想正确地运用它们，你需要细心体会，广泛实践。它们其实相当简单，即便是十岁的小孩，也能够最终掌握。不过有时候，即使贵为一国之君，也会因忽略和漠视它们而遭到报复，自取灭亡。实践这些原则，关键在于你的态度，你要敢于面对痛苦而非逃避。对于时刻想着逃避痛苦的人，这些原则不会起到任何作用，他们也绝不会从自律中获益。接下来，我要对这几种原则深入阐述，然后再探讨它们背后的原动力———爱。

Delaying Gratificaiton
==========================
Not too long ago a thirty-year-old financial analyst was complaining to me over a period of months about her tendency to procrastinate in her job. We had workded though her fellings about her employers and how they related to fellings about authority in general, and to her parents specifically. We had examined her attitudes toward work and success and how these related to her marriage, her sexual identity, her desire to compete with her husband, and her fears of such competition. Yet despite all this standard and painstaking psychoanalytic work, she continued to procrastinate as much as ever. Finally, one day, we dared to look at the obvious. "Do you like cake?" I asked her. She replied that she did. "Which part of the cake do you like better," I went on, "the cake or the frosting?" "Oh, the frosting!" she responded enthusiastically. "And how do you eat a piece of cake?" I required, feeling that I must be the most inane psychiatrist that ever lived. "I eat the frosting first,of course," she replied. From her cake-eating habits we went on to examine her work habits, and, as was to the more gratifying half of her work and the remaining six hours getting around to the objxtionable remainder. I suggested that if she were to force herself to accomplish the unpleasant part of her job during the first hour, she would then be free to enjoy the other six. It seemed to me , I said, that one hour of pain followed by six of pelasure was preferable to one hour of pleasure followed by six of pain. She agreed, and, beng basically a person of strong will, she no longer procrastinates.

不久前，一位30岁的金融分析师请求我的帮助，她想纠正在最近几个月里，总是拖延工作的恶习。我们探讨了她对老板的看法，老板对她的态度；她对权威的认识以及她的父母的情况。我们也谈到她对工作与成就的观念；这些观念对其婚姻观、性别观的影响；她同丈夫和同事竞争的愿望，以及竞争带给她的恐惧感。尽管一再努力，但这种常规心理分析和治疗，并未触及问题的症结。终于有一天，我们进入久被忽略的一个领域，才使治疗出现了转机。“你喜欢吃蛋糕吗？”我问。她回答说喜欢。“你更喜欢吃蛋糕，”我接着问，“还是蛋糕上涂抹的奶油？”她兴奋地说：“啊，当然是奶油啦！”“那么，你通常是怎么吃蛋糕的呢？”我接着又问。我也许是有史以来最愚蠢的心理医生了。她不假思索地说：“那还用说吗，我通常先吃完奶油，然后才吃蛋糕的。”就这样，我们从吃蛋糕的习惯出发，重新讨论她对待工作的态度。正如我预料的，在上班第一个钟头，她总是把容易和喜欢做的工作先完成，而在剩下六个钟头里，她就尽量规避棘手的差事。我建议她从现在开始，在上班第一个钟头，要先去解决那些麻烦的差事，在剩下的时间里，其他工作会变得相对轻松。考虑到她学的是财务管理，我就这样解释其中的道理：按一天工作七个钟头计算，一个钟头的痛苦，加上六个钟头的幸福，显然要比一个钟头的幸福，加上六个钟头的痛苦划算。她完全同意这样的计算方法，而且坚决照此执行，不久就彻底克服了拖延工作的坏毛病。

Delaying gratification is a process of scheduling the pain and pleasure of life in such a way a to enhance the pleasure by meeting and experiencing the pain first and getting it over with. It is the only decent way to live.

推迟满足感，意味着不贪图暂时的安逸，重新设置人生快乐与痛苦的次序：首先，面对问题并感受痛苦；然后，解决问题并享受更大的快乐，这是惟一可行的生活方式。

This tool or precess of scheduling is learned by most children quite early in life, sometimes as early as age five. For instance, occasionally a five-year-old when playing a game with a companion will suggest that the companion take first turn, so that the child might enjoy his or her turn later. At age six children may start eating their cake first and the frosting later. At age six children may start eating their cake first and the frosting last. Throughout grammar school this early capacity to the delay gratification is daily exercised, particularly through the performance of homework. By the age of twelve some children are already able to sit down on occasion without any parental prompting and complete their homework before they watch television. By the age of fifteen or sixteen such behavior is expected of the adolescent and is considered normal.

其实，我们早在小时候（通常从五岁开始），就可以学会自律的原则，避免只图眼前安逸带来的不利。例如在幼儿园里，有的游戏需要孩子们轮流参与，如果一个五岁的男孩多些耐心，暂且让同伴先玩游戏，而自己等到最后，就可以享受到更多的乐趣，他可以在无人催促的情况下，玩到尽兴方休。对于六岁的孩子而言，吃蛋糕时不把奶油一口气吃完，或者先吃蛋糕，后吃奶油，就可以享受到更甜美的滋味。小学的孩子正确对待家庭作业，是实践“推迟满足感”的最佳手段。孩子满12岁时，无须父母催促，首先做完功课，再去看电视。到了十五六岁以后，他们的实践更可以得心应手。到了青春期，他们处理类似问题，应该形成一种习惯或常态。

It becomes clear to their educators at this age, however, that a substantial number of adolescents fall fat short of this norm. While many have a well-developed this capacity at all; indeed, some seem even to lack the capacity entirely. These are the problem srudents. Despite average or better intelligence, their grades are poor simply because they do not work. They skip classes or skip school entirely on the whim of the moment. They are implusive, and their impulsiveness spills over into their social life as well. They get into frequent fights, they become involved with drugs, they begin to get in trouble with the police. Play now, pay later, is their motto. So the psychologists and psychotherapists are called in. But most of the time it seems too late. These adolescents are resentful of any attempt to intervene in their life style of impulsiveness, and even when this resentment can be overcome by warmth and friendliness and a nonjudgment attitude on the part of the therapist, their impulsiveness is often so severe that it precludes their participation in the process of psychotherapy in any meaningful way. They miss their appointments. They avoid all important and painful issues. So usually the attempt at intervention fails. and these children drop out of school, only to continue a pattern of failure that frequently lands them in disastrous marriages, in accidents, in psychiatric hospitals or in jail.

根据教育工作者的经验，不少青春期的少年，却缺少这种健康的常态。许多孩子懂得推迟满足感的好处，但还有的孩子显然缺乏能力和经验。有的孩子长到十五六岁，仍旧缺乏“先吃苦，后享受”的意识，而是恰好将次序颠倒过来，他们很容易成为“问题学生”。他们的智商与别人相比毫不逊色，但不肯用功学习，导致成绩远远落在别人后面。他们说话和做事，全凭一时冲动。只要心血来潮，他们动辄旷课或逃学。他们不愿思考，缺乏耐心，这很容易危及他们的社会生活：喜欢打架，与毒品为伴，故意与警方为难并发生冲突，此类情形司空见惯。“先享受，后付费”，成为他们的座右铭。他们最需要心理治疗，却往往为时已晚。意气用事的青少年，通常不喜欢被人干涉，即便心理治疗师能以客观、公正、亲切的姿态，慢慢化解他们的敌意，他们也难以积极配合整个治疗过程。他们的主观冲动过于强烈，经常逃避定期的治疗。心理医生的一切努力，常常以失败告终，最终这些孩子离开学校，浪迹社会。他们的成年生活也极为糟糕———婚姻不幸，精神恍惚、神不守舍，容易遭受意外事故，而精神病院或者监狱可能成为他们最终的归宿。

Why is this? Why do a majority develop a capacity to delay fratification while a substantial minority fail, often irretrievably, to develop this capacity. The answer is not absolutely, scientifically know. The role of genetic factors is unclear. The variables cannot be sufficiently controlled for scientific proof. But most of the signs rather clearly point to the quality of parenting as the determinant. 

为什么会出现这样的情形？为什么大部分人拥有足够的自制力，能避免贪图一时安逸的恶果，却有相当数量的人不懂得推迟满足感，最终成为失败者？其中的原因，目前医学界尚无定论，仅有的答案也缺乏足够的依据，基因的作用并不明显，其他因素也有待科学论证，但大部分迹象表明，在这方面，家庭教育起着相当大的作用。

The sins of the father
=============================
It is not that the homes of these unself-disciplined children are lacking in parental discipline of a sort. More often than not these children are punished frequently and severly throughout their childhood -- slapped, punched, kicked, beaten and whipped by their paents for even minor infractions. But this discipline is meaningless. Because it is undiciplined discipline.

缺少自律的孩子，未必是因为父母管教不严。不少孩子甚至经常遭受严厉的体罚，即便小有过错，父母也会劈头盖脸地打过去：掌掴、脚踢、鞭打、拳击，可谓花样翻新。这种教育不仅收效甚微，甚至反而使局面恶化。

One reason that it is meaningless, is that the parents themselves are unself-disciplined, and therefore serve as undisciplined role models for their children. They are the "Do as I say, Not as I do" parents. They may frequently get drunk in front of their children. THey may fignhtt with each other in front of the children without restraint, dignity or rationality. They may be slovenly. They make promises they don't keep. Their own libes are frequently and obviously in disorder and disarray, and their attempts to order the lives of their children seem therfore to make little sense to these children. If father beats up mother regularly, what sense does it make to a boy when his mother beats him up because he beat up his sister? Does it make sense when he's told that he must learn to control his tempet? Since we do not have the benefit of comparison when we are young, our parents are godlike figures to our children eyes. When parents do things a certain way, it seems to the young child the way to do them, the way they should be done. If a child sees his parents day in and day out behaving with self-discipline, restraint, dignity and a capacity to order their own lives, then the child will come to feel in the deepest fibers of his being that this is the way to live. If a child sees his parents day in and day our libing without self-restraint or self-discipline, then he will come in the deeppest fibersof being to believe that that is the way to live. 

父母本身难以自律，就不可能成为孩子的榜样。父母常常告诫孩子：“照我的话去做，不过别去学我。”他们酗酒无度，或在孩子面前恶语相向，甚至大打出手。他们缺乏起码的自制力，缺少长辈的尊严和理性；他们形容邋遢、一塌糊涂，甚至偷懒耍滑、背信弃义。他们的生活毫无章法，却强迫孩子有条不紊地生活。可想而知，假如父亲动辄殴打孩子的母亲，那么母亲因儿子欺负妹妹而对其施以体罚，又有多少意义呢？如何又能指望儿子听她的话，控制好情绪呢？在年幼的孩子心中，父母就像上帝那样位高权重。孩子缺乏其他模仿的对象，自然把父母处理问题的办法全盘接受下来，并视为金科玉律。父母懂得自律、自制和自尊，生活井然有序，孩子就会心领神会，并奉之为最高准则。父母的生活混乱不堪、任意妄为，孩子们同样照单全收，并视为不二法门。

Yet even more important than role modeling is love. For even in chatic and disordered homes genuine love is occasionally present, and form such homes may come may come self-disciplined children. And not infrequently parents who are professional people -- doctors, lawyers, club women and philanthropists -- who leads lives of strict orderlines and decorum but yet lack love, send children into the world who are as undisciplined and destructive and disorganized as any child from an impoverished and chaotic home.

父母的爱心至关重要，即便家庭生活混乱，倘若有爱存在，照样可以培养出懂得自律的孩子。父母身为医生、律师、企业经理、慈善家，即便在职业上得心应手，生活方式也相当严谨，倘若缺少爱和温情，他们培养的子女，就和成长在贫寒、混乱家庭的孩子一样，照样不懂得自律，照样随心所欲、无法无天。

Ultimatly love is everything. This mystery of love will be examined in later portions of this week. Yet, for the sake of coherency, it may be helpfui to make a brief but limited mention of it and its relationship to discipline at this point.

爱，关乎心灵的健康成长。在本书后面部分，我将就此深入探讨。爱，是身心健康必不可少的元素，所以有必要了解爱的实质，以及爱同自律的关系。

When we love something it is of value to us, and when something is of value to us we spend time with it, time enjoying it and time taking care of it. Observe a teenager. In love with his car and note the time he will spend admiring it, polishing it, repairing it, tuning it . Or and older person whirh a beloved rose garden, and the time spent pruning and mulching and fertilizing and studying it. So it is when we love children; we spend time admiring them and caring for them. We give them our time.

我们爱某样东西，就会乐于为它付出时间。譬如，某个青年终于拥有心仪已久的汽车，你就会发现，他把多少时间用在汽车上面：擦车、洗车、修车、给汽车美容、不停地欣赏它、整理汽车内室……你也可以观察，一个上了年纪的老人，如何照料他的花园：浇水、施肥、修剪、除虫、嫁接、移植……对子女的爱也同样如此，我们可以花更多的时间去照顾他们、陪伴他们。


Good discipline requires time. When we have no time to give our children, or no time that we are willing to give, we don't even observe them closely enough to become aware of when their need for our disciplinary assistance id expressed subtly. If their need for discipline is so gross as to impinge upon our consciousness, we may still ignore the need on the grounds that it's easier to let them have their own way -- "I just don't have the energy to deal with them today." Or, finally, if we are impelled into action by their misdeeds and our irritation, we will impose discipline, often brutally, out of anger rather than deliberation, without examining the problem or even taking the time to consider which form of discipline is the most appropriate to that particular problem.


让孩子学会自律，也需要时间。不把精力用在孩子身上，与孩子相处的时间少得可怜，就无法深入了解其需要，就不知道他们在自律方面，还需要哪些条件。遗憾的是，即便孩子明显需要纪律训练的时候，我们可能照样无知无觉，甚至不管不顾。“我没精力管你们，你们想怎么样，就怎么样吧！”最后，到了危机时刻，孩子的错误导致我们恼怒，我们就会把满腔怨气发泄出来。我们根本不愿去调查问题的本质，也不考虑哪种教育模式最适合。父母习惯用严厉的体罚教训孩子，本质上不是教育，而是发泄怨气和不满。

The parents who devote time to their children even when it is not demanded by glaring misdeeds will perceive in them subtle needs for discipline, to which they will respond with gentle urging or reprimand or stucture or parise, administered with thoughtfulness and care. They will observe how their children eat cake, how they study, when they tell subtle falsehoods, when they run away from problems rather than face them. They will take the time to make these monor corrections and adjustments, listening to their children, responding to them, tightening a little here, liisening a little there, giving them little lectures, little hugs and kisses, little admonishments, little pats on the back.

聪明的父母决不会这样做。他们愿意花时间了解孩子，对症下药地教育孩子。哪怕孩子犯了大错，他们也恰当运用敦促、鼓励、表扬，或必要的警告和责备。他们灵活调整孩子的发展方向，认真观察孩子的言行举止：吃蛋糕、做功课、撒谎、欺骗、逃避任务……他们也会倾听孩子的心里话，在对孩子的管教上，他们掌握分寸，张弛有度。他们给孩子讲有意义的故事，适时亲吻、拥抱、爱抚他们，及时纠正孩子的问题。

So it is that the quality of discipline afforded by loving parents is superior to the discipline of unloving parents. But this is just the beginning. In taking the time to observe and to think about their chidren's needs, loving parents will frequently agonize over the decisions to be made, and will, in a very real sense, suffer along with their children. The children are not blind to this. They perceive it when their parents are willing to suffer with them , and although they may not respond with immediate gratitude, they will learn also to suffer. "If my parents are willing to suffer with me," they will tell themselves, "then suffering must not be so bad, and I shoulf be willing to suffer with myself." THis is the beginning of self-discipline.

毋庸置疑，父母的爱，决定了家庭教育质量的优劣。充满爱的教育带来幸运；缺乏爱的教育只能导致不幸。富有爱心的父母，善于审视孩子的需要，做出理性、客观的判断。他们也可能在面临痛苦抉择时，与孩子一道经受痛苦和折磨。孩子也当然会逐渐意识到，父母甘心陪着忍受苦楚的一片苦心。他们未必立刻流露感激之情，却可以领悟到痛苦的内涵和真谛，他们提醒自己：“既然爸爸妈妈愿意陪着我忍受痛苦，痛苦就不见得那么可怕，而且未必是太坏的事。我也应该承担责任，面对属于自己的痛苦。”———这就是自律的起点。

The time and the quality of the time that their parents devote to them indicate to children the degree to which they are valued by their parents. Some basically unloving parents, in an attempt to cover up their lack of caring, make frequent professions of love to therir children, repetitively and mechanically telling them how much they are valued, but not devoting significant time of high quality to them. THeri children are never totally deceived by such hollow words. Consciously they may cling to them, wating to believe that they are loved, but unconsciously they know that their parents's word do not match up with their deeds.

父母付出的努力越大，孩子感受到的重视程度，就越是强烈。有的父母为掩饰在家庭教育上的失败，就会不停地告诉孩子，说自己是多么爱他们，多么重视他们，云云，但真相无法逃过孩子的眼睛。孩子不会被谎言和欺骗长期蒙蔽，他们渴望得到父母的爱，但父母一再出尔反尔，只会让他们渐失信心。即便他们表面不会牢骚不断，或大发雷霆，可父母的教导和许诺，近乎一钱不值。更为糟糕的是，他们会情不自禁地模仿父母，拷贝父母的处世方式，将它视为人生的标准和榜样。

On the other hand, children who are truly loved, although in moments of pique they may consciously feel or proclaim that they are being neglected, unconsciously know themselves to be valued. This knowledge id worth more than any gold. For when children know that they are valued, when they truly feel valued in the deepest parts of themselves, then they feel valuable.

那些沐浴着父母的爱的孩子，心灵却可以健全发展。他们也可能因父母一时的忽视表示不满，然而他们对父母的爱感激不尽。父母的珍视让他们懂得珍惜自己，懂得选择进步而不是落后，懂得追求幸福而不是自暴自弃。他们将自尊自爱作为人生起点，这有着比黄金还要宝贵的价值。

The feeling of being valuable -- "I am a valuable person" -- is essential to mental health and is a cornerstone of self-discipline. It is a direct product of parental love. Such a conviction must be gained in childhood; it is extremely difficult to acquire it during adulthood. Conversely, when children have learned through the love of their parents to feel valuable, it is almost impossible for the vicissitudes of adulthood to destroy their spirit.

“我是个有价值的人”，有了这样宝贵的认知，便构成了健全心理的基本前提，也是自律的根基。它直接来源于父母的爱。“天生我材必有用”，这种自信须从幼年培养，不然成年后再作补救，往往事倍功半。孩子幼年起就享受到父母的爱，成年后即便遭遇天大的挫折，幼年培养的强大自信，也会使其鼓足勇气，勇敢地战胜困难，而不致自暴自弃。

This felling of being valueable is a cornerstone of self-discipline because when one considers oneself valueable one will take care of oneself in all ways that necessary. Self-discipline is self-caring. For instance -- since we are difcussing the process of delaying gratification, of scheduling and ordering time -- let us examine the matter of time. If we feel ourselves valuable, then we will feel our time to be valuable, then we will want to use it well. The financial analyst who procrastinated did not value her time. If she had, she would not have allowed herself to spend mst of her day so unhappily and unproductively. It was not without consequence for her that throughout her childhood she was "fanned out" during all school vacations to live with paid foster parents althoufh her parents could have taken care of her perfectly well had they wanted to. They did not value her. They did not want to care for her. So she grew up feeling herself to be of little value, not worth caring for; therefore she did not care for herself. She did not feel she was worth disciplining herself. Despite the fact that she was an intelligent and competent woman she required the most elementary instruction in self-discipline because she lacked a realistic assessment of her own worth and the value of her own time. Once she was able to perceive her time as being valuable, it naturally followed that she wanted to organize it and protect it and make maximum use of it.

自尊自爱的感觉，是自律的基础。自律的核心，就是学习自我照顾，承认自我价值的重要性，并采取一切措施照顾自己，这是走向自立的关键。假如懂得自我珍惜，我们就会合理安排时间。那个拖延工作的财务分析师的问题，就在于她一度忽略和漠视时间的价值，因此郁郁寡欢，无谓地虚度光阴。童年时，她曾有过不幸的遭遇：亲生父母有能力照顾她，可是每逢学校放假，他们都会拿出钱，把她送到养父母家中，她从小就体验到寄人篱下的感觉。孩子觉得父母不重视她，也不愿意照顾她，她从小就觉得低人一等。她长大以后虽聪明能干，自我评价却低得可怜。所以，她不得不从最基本的自律做起。意识到时间有多么重要，她终于重新设定时间表，让每一分、每一秒都得到充分利用。

As a result of the experience of consistent parental love and caring throughout childhood, such fortunate children will enter adulthood not only with a deep internal sense of their own value but also with a deep internal sense of security. All children are terrified of abandonment, and with good reason. This fear of abandonment begins around the age of six months, as soon as the child is able to perceive itself as an individual, separate from its parents. For with this perception of itself as an individual comes the realization that as an individual it is quite helpless, totally dependent and totally at the mercy of its parents for all forms of sustenance and means of survival. To the child, abandonment by its parents is the equivalent of death. Most parents, even when they are otherwise relatively ignorant or callous, are instinctively sensitive to their children's fear of abandonment and will therefore day in and day out, hundreds and thousands of times, offer; their children needed reassurance: "You know Mommy and Daddy aren't going to leave you behind";"Of course Mommy and Daddy will come back to get you";"Mommy and Daddy aren't going to forget about you." If these words are matched by deeds, month in and month out, year in and year out, by the time of adolescence the child will have lost the fear of abandonment and in its stead will have a deep inner feeling that the world is a safe place in which to be and protection will be there when it is needed. With this internal sense of the consistent safety of the world, such a child is free to delay gratification of one kind or another, secure in the knowledge that the opportunity for gratification, like home and parents, is always there, available when needed.

孩子童年时能得到父母的爱和照顾，长大后内心就会拥有安全感。所有的孩子都害怕被遗弃。孩子到了六个月大，就会意识到自己与父母彼此分离，这使他们感觉无助。他们知道，依靠父母提供物质资料，才能获得生存，遭到遗弃就无异于死亡，所以害怕任何形式的遗弃。父母对此都有敏锐的直觉，他们向孩子做出保证：“我们是爱你的，永远不会丢弃你不管。”“爸爸妈妈当然会回来看你，我们会永远陪伴在你的身边。”“我们是不会忘记你的。”父母做出保证并以切实行动配合，孩子到了青春期和青年时期，潜在的恐惧就会消失，就不会只贪图一时的安逸，甘愿以某种方式推迟暂时的满足感。他们知道，只要耐心等待，他们的需求最终都会实现，就像家庭和父母做出的保证一样。

耶稣的后裔 从祖先寻找自己的价值

But many are not so funtunate. A substantial number of children actully are abandoned by their parents during childhood, by death, by desertion, by sheer negligence, or, as in the case of the financial analyst, by a simple lack of caring. Others, while not abandoned in fact, fail to receive from their parents the reassurance that they will not be abandoned. There are some parents, for instance, with their desire to enforce discipline as easily and quickly as possible, will actually use the threat of abandonment, overtly or subtly, to achieve this end. The message they give to their children is: "If you don't do exactly what I want you to do I won't love you anymore, and you can figure out for yourself what that might mean." It means, of course, abandonment and death. These parants sacrifice love in their need for control and domination over their children, and their reward is children who are excessively fearful of the future. So it is that these children, abandoned either psychologically or in actually, enter adulthood lacking any deep sense that the world is a safe and protective place. To the contary, they perceive the world as dangerous and frighting, and they are not about to forsake any gratification or security in the present for the promise of greater gratification or security in the future, since for them the future seems dubious indeed.

孩子童年时能得到父母的爱和照顾，长大后内心就会拥有安全感。所有的孩子都害怕被遗弃。孩子到了六个月大，就会意识到自己与父母彼此分离，这使他们感觉无助。他们知道，依靠父母提供物质资料，才能获得生存，遭到遗弃就无异于死亡，所以害怕任何形式的遗弃。父母对此都有敏锐的直觉，他们向孩子做出保证：“我们是爱你的，永远不会丢弃你不管。”“爸爸妈妈当然会回来看你，我们会永远陪伴在你的身边。”“我们是不会忘记你的。”父母做出保证并以切实行动配合，孩子到了青春期和青年时期，潜在的恐惧就会消失，就不会只贪图一时的安逸，甘愿以某种方式推迟暂时的满足感。他们知道，只要耐心等待，他们的需求最终都会实现，就像家庭和父母做出的保证一样。

In summary, for children to develop the capacity to delay gratification, it is necessary for them to have self-disciplined role models, a sense of self-worth, and a degree of trust in the safety of their existence. These "possessions" are ideally acquired through the self-discipline and consistent, genuine caring of their parents; they are the most precious gifts of themselves that mothers and fathers can bequeath. When these gift have not been proffered by one's parents, it is possible to acquire them from other source, but in that case the process of the acquisition is invariably an uphill struggle, often of lifelong duration and often unsuccessful.

要让孩子养成推迟满足感的习惯，就必须让有自律的模范；要让他们养成自律意识，对安全感产生信任，父母必须以身作则。这些心灵的财富，来自父母表里如一的爱，来自父母持之以恒的照顾，这是父母送给子女最好的礼物。假如这些礼物无法从父母那里获得，孩子也有可能从其他渠道得到，不过获得礼物的过程，必然是一场更为艰辛的奋斗，通常要经过一生的鏖战，而且常常以失败告终。

Problem-Solving and Time
==============================
Having touched upon some of the ways in which parental love or its lack may influence the development of self-discipline in general, and the capacity to delay gratification in particular, let us examine some of the more subtle yet quite devastating ways in which difficulties in delaying gratification affect the lives of most adults. For while most of us, fortunately, develop sufficient capacity to delay gratification to make it through high school or college and embark upon adulthood without landing in jail, our development nonetheless tends to be inperfect and incomplete, with the result that our ability to solve life's problems is still imperfect and imcomplete.

谈到父母的爱对子女的自律，以及对推迟满足感的影响，我们不妨看看不能推迟满足感，对于成年生活有怎样的影响。虽然多数成年人都具备推迟满足感的能力，他们可以顺利读完高中和大学，继而投身社会生活，没有锒铛入狱的不幸，但是，他们的发展仍是不完善的，解决问题的能力同样也不完善。

At the age of thiry-seven I learned how to fix things. Prior to that time almost all my attempts to make minor plumbing repairs, mend toys or assemble boxed furniture accroding to the accompanying hieroglyphical instruction sheet ended in confusion, failure and frustration. Despite having managed to make it through medical school and support a family as a more or less successful executive and psychiatrist, I considered myself to be a mechanical idiot. I was convinced I was deficient in some gene, or by curse of nature lacking some mystical quality responsible for mechanical ability. Then one day at the end of my thirty-seventh year, while taking a spring Sunday walk, I happened upon a neighbor in the process of repairing a lawn mower. After greeting him I remarked, "Boy, I sure admire you. I've never been able to fix those kind of things or do anything like that." My neighbor, without a moment's hesitation, shot back, "That's because you don't take the time." I resumed my walk, somehow disquieted by the guru-like simplicity, spontaneity and definitiveness of his response. "You don't suppose he could be right, do you?" I asked myself. Somehow it registered, and the next time the opportunity presented itself to make a minor repair I was able to remind myself to take my time. The parking brake was stuck on a patient's car, and she knew that there was something one could do under the dashboard to release it, but she didn't know what. I lay down on the floor below the front seat of the car. Then I look the time to make myself comfortable. Once I was comfortable, I then took the time to look at the situation. I looked for serval minutes. At first all I saw was a confusing jumble of wires and tubes and rods, whose meaning I did not know. But gradually, in no hurry, I was able to focus my sight on the brake apparatus and trace its course. And then it became clear to me that there was a little latch preventing the brake from being released. I slowly studied this latch until it became clear to me that if I were to push it upward with the tip of my finger it would move easily and would release the brake. And so I did this. One single motion, one ounce of pressure from a fingertip, and the problem was solved. I was a master mechanic!

说来可笑，我到了37岁，才学会修理日常物品和器具，此前不管是修水管、修电灯，还是根据复杂的说明书组装玩具或者家具，我都是一窍不通，偶尔为之，也总以混乱、失败和沮丧收场。尽管我从医学院光荣毕业，然后安家立业，并在心理治疗和行政管理上小有成就，可处理起机械来却笨手笨脚，活像个愚蠢的傻瓜。我自卑地相信缺乏某种基因，天生就不是解决机械问题的材料。37岁快要结束的那年春天，我星期天在户外散步，看见邻居正在修理除草机。我同他打过招呼，羡慕地说：“哦，你真是能干啊！我从来就不会修理这种玩意儿，还有其他别的东西。”他马上回答：“那是你没有花时间去尝试罢了。”我继续散步，内心越来越不平静，他这句简单而意味深长的话，给了我很大的震撼。我扪心自问：“他说的可能是对的。伙计，也许你真的没那么差劲儿，是吗？”我铭记他的话，并提醒自己：以后有机会，一定要花时间检验一下。不久我就有机会亲自验证这个疑问。一位女病人的汽车刹车出了问题：被什么东西卡住而无法活动。病人告诉我：汽车仪表板下面有个刹车开关，不过她不知道开关的确切位置，也不知道是什么形状。我自告奋勇地帮她解决这个问题。我躺在方向盘下面的地板上，尽量提醒自己放松。我深深地吐出一口气，然后耐心地观察了好几分钟。我看不懂眼前那成堆的电线啊、管子啊、杆子啊，它们到底是怎么回事？我集中注意力，追踪与刹车有关的机件，弄懂了刹车的运作过程。我最终找到了症结———那个使刹车无法移动的小开关。我又做了细致研究，发现把手指向上一扳，刹车就可以被释放出来。于是我就那样做了：真是想不到，只要指尖给出一盎司的压力，问题就彻底解决了。我异常振奋：嘿，我真是一流的机械师啊！

Actually, I don't begin to have the knowledge or the time to gain that knowledge to be able to fix most mechanical failures, given the fact that I choose to concentrate my time on nonmechanical matters. So I still usually go running to the nearest repairman. But I now know that this is a choice I make, and I am not cursed or genetically defective or otherwise incapacitated or impotent. And I know that I and anyone else who is not mentally defective can solve any problem if we are willing to take the time.

The issue is important, because many people simply do not take the time necessary to solve many of life's intellectual. social or spiritual problems, just as I did not take the time to solve mechanical problems. Before my mechanical enlightenment I would have awkwardly stuck my head under the dashboard of my patient's car, immediately yanked at a few wires without having the foggiest idea of what I was doing, and then, when nothing constructive resulted, would have thrown up my hands and proclaimed "It's beyond me." And this is precisely the way that so many of us approach other dilemmas of day-to-day living. The aforementioned financial analyst was a basically loving and dedicated but rather helpless mother to her two young children. She was alert and concerned enough to perceive when her children were having some sort of emotional problem or when something was not working out in her child-raising. But then she inevitably took one of two courses of action with the children: either she made the very first change that came to her mind within a matter of seconds -- making them eat more breakfast or sending them to bed earlier -- regardless of whether such a change had anything to do with the problem, or else she came to her next therapy session with me (the repairman), despairing:"It's beyond me. What shell I do?" This women had a perfectly keen and analytical mind, and when she didn't procrastinate, she was quite capable of solving complex problems at work. Yet when confronted with a personal problem, she behaved as if she were totally lacking in intelligence. The issue was one of time. Once she became aware of a personal problem, she felt so discomfitted that she demanded an immediate solution, and she was not willing to tolerate her discomfort long enough to analyze the problem. The solution to the problem represented gratificaiton to her, but she was unable to delay this gratification for more than a minute or two, with the result that her solutions were usually inappropiate and her family in chronic turmoil. Fortunately, through her own perseverance in therapy she was gradually able to learn how to discipline herself to take the time necessary to analyze family problems so as to develop well-thought-out and effective solutions.

我的专业与机械无关。我既没有机械专业知识，也不愿解决机械问题，我把时间用在非机械领域上。大多数情况下，我宁愿求助于修理工。我现在知道，这完全是我自己的选择，而不是基因有什么缺陷。我相信除非存在智力障碍，不然只要花时间学习，就没什么问题解决不了。许多人都没付出时间和精力，去解决知识、社交、心理方面的问题———就像我对待机械问题的态度一样。在得到机械修理启蒙之前，假如我那天缺乏耐心，就会把脑袋伸到病人汽车仪表板下，胡乱扯几根线头，见没有效果，我便会耸耸肩、摊摊手说：“对不起，我搞不清楚是怎么回事，我想我没办法帮上你了。”许多人处理问题，不也是采取这样的态度吗？前面提到的财务师，其实是一位充满爱心、相当努力的母亲，却怎么也管不好两个孩子。孩子的情绪出现异常，或者家庭教育出现问题，她很快就会觉察到。她通常只会根据大脑的即兴反应，随意动用家长权威，譬如强迫孩子多吃早点，提前就寝等等。尽管这么做收效甚微，但她却极少考虑类似方式是否能解决问题。万般无奈之下，最终她只好向我求助，懊恼地对我说：“我拿他们一点儿办法也没有，我该怎么办呢？”这位女士头脑聪明，只要在工作上不再推诿塞责，就会显示出极强的能力，但在解决家庭矛盾上，她立刻就成了智力低下的人。问题的关键出在她对时间的利用上。家庭问题让她头昏脑胀，她只想尽快脱身，尽快缩短自己与问题接触的时间，而不愿花时间来应对这种不舒服的感觉，不愿冷静地分析问题。虽然解决问题能给她带来满足感，而她根本不想去推迟这种满足感，哪怕是一两分钟也不行，最终她没有从问题中积累起任何有效的经验，家庭便因此长期陷入了混乱。

We are not talking here about esoteric defects in problem-solving associated only with people who clearly manifest psychiatric disturbances. The financial analyst is everyman. Who among us can say that they unfailingly devote sufficient time to analyzing their children's problem or tensions within the family? Who among us is so self-disciplined that he or she never say resignedly in the face of family problems, "It's beyond me?"

我们谈论的上述人士，并非有明显的心理障碍，面对问题时，也不会出现奇特的“智力缺陷”，他们的问题仅仅在于缺少自律。那个财务分析师的情况，足以代表所有的人。我们有谁能够拍着胸脯说：他们总是把足够多的时间用在分析孩子的问题和解决家庭危机上面？又有谁真正学会了自律和自我管理，从而不会消极面对一切问题，不会心灰意冷地摊开双手说：“这超出了我的能力之外”？

Actually, there is a defect in the approach to problem-solving more promitive and more destructive than impatiently inadequate attempts to find instant solutions, a defect even more ubiquitous and universal. It is the hope that problems will go away of their own accord. A thirty-year-old single salasman in group therapy in a small town began to date the recently separated with of another group member, a banker. The salesman knew the banker to be a chronically angry man who was deeply resentful of his wife's leaving him. He knew that he was not being honest either with the group or with the banker by not confiding his relationships. He knew that the only solutions to the problem would be to confess the realtionships to the group and bear the banker's anger with the group's support. But he did nothing. After three months the banker found out about the friendship, was prefictably enraged, and use the incident to quit his therapy. When confronting by the group with his destructive behavior the salesman said: "I knew that talking about it would be a hassle, and I guess I felt that if I did nothing, maybe I could get away with it without the hassle. I guess I thought that if I waited long enough the problem might go away." 

和那些缺乏耐心、想让问题马上解决的态度相比，另一种解决问题的态度更低级，也更有破坏性，那就是希望问题自行消失。人人都有这样的倾向：问题一旦出现，就要立刻解决，不然他们就会思绪烦乱、寝食不安，这样的心态显然不切实际，但一厢情愿地等待问题自行消失，这种心态更为可怕，通常不会带来任何好结果。有一个30岁的单身销售员，他在某小城市接受团体治疗期间，与另一个团体治疗成员的妻子偷偷约会。另一个治疗成员是个银行家，最近刚刚和妻子分居。销售员知道，银行家长期处于愤怒和郁闷状态，因为他痛恨妻子离开自己。销售员知道，他对那个银行家和其他团体治疗成员并不诚实，因为他没有透露他和银行家妻子的交往，这违背了团体治疗的基本原则。他也知道，那个银行家迟早会知道妻子同自己的关系。解决这个问题的惟一办法，就是把这种关系在治疗团体里公开，并且取得大家的支持，迎接银行家的怒火和攻讦。不过销售员却什么都没有说。过了三个月，银行家发现了他们的关系，正如预料的那样，银行家大为恼火，他以这件事为缘由，很快中止了治疗。销售员伤害性的举动，终于遭到团体成员的质疑和指责，而他却辩解说：“我以前觉得说出这件事，可能会引起一场激烈的争论，假如我什么都不说，一切都会过去，也不会发生唇枪舌战。我以为等待足够长的时间，问题可能就会消失。”

Problems do not go away. They must be worked through or else they remain, forever a barrier to the growth and development of the spirt.

———问题没有消失，它们仍继续存在，它们是妨碍心灵成长的永远的障碍。

The group made the salesman aware in no uncertain terms that his tendency to avoid problem-solving by ignoring a problem in the hope that it would go away was in itself his major problem. Four months later, in the early autumn, the salesman fulfilled a fantasy by rather suddenly quitting his sales job and starting his own furniture-repair business, which could not require him to travel. The group deplored the fact that he was putting all his eggs in one basket and also questioned the wisdom of making the move with winter coming on, but the salesman assured them he would make enough to get by in his new bussiness. The subject was dropped. Then in early February he announced that he would have to quit the group because he could no longer pay the fee. He was dead broke and would have to start looking for another job. In five months he had repaired a tatal of eight pieces of furniture. When asked why he hadn't started looking for a job sooner, he replied:"I knew six weeks ago that I was running through my money fast, but somehow I couldn't believe that it would come to this point. The whole thing just didn't seem very urgent, but, boy, it's urgent now." He had, of course, ignored his problem. Slowly it began to dawn on him that until he solved his problem of ignoring problems he would never get beyond step one -- even with all the psychotherapy in the world.

团体治疗专家提醒销售员：为避免解决问题而忽略问题的存在，并指望问题自行消失，这是他人生中的一个大问题。可是四个月以后，就在那年的初秋，销售员又做出了一次匪夷所思的举动：他突然中止了销售工作，开办了一个家具修理公司（这样，他就不必经常出差了）。治疗专家发现他是孤注一掷，就对他的举动的合理性提出质疑，因为冬天（淡季）即将来到，他很可能生意惨淡。那个销售员却认为，公司可以接到很多订单，使他很快渡过难关。二月份，他对大家宣布：他不得不放弃治疗了，因为他已无法支付治疗费用。他一贫如洗，只好另寻职业。在过去五个月里，他一共才修理了七件家具。当他被问到既然前景不妙，为什么没有及早去找一份工作，他回答说：“六个星期以前，我本以为可以很快赚到钱，却没有想到弄到现在这个地步，但当时看上去，我的处境并没有那样急迫啊！可是，我的上帝，现在完全不一样了，我根本没有料到！”显然，他忽视了自己的问题，他终于明白：只有解决“忽视问题”这一问题，他才能继续解决其他问题，才能走向下一步———世界上所有的心理治疗，本质上莫不如此。

This inclination to ignore problems is once again a simple manifestation of an unwillingness to delay gratification. Confronting problems is, as I have said, painful. To willingly confront a problem early, before we are forced to confront it by circumastances, means to put aside something pleasant or less painful for something more painful. It is choosing to suffer now in the hope of future gratification rather than choosing to continue present gratificaiton in the hope that future suffering will not be necessary.

忽视问题的存在，反映出人们不愿推迟满足感的心理。我说过：直面问题会使人感觉痛苦。问题通常不可能自行消失，若不解决，就会永远存在，阻碍心智的成熟。我们都有这样的体验：问题降临，必将带来程度不同的痛苦体验。尽可能早地面对它们，意味着推迟满足感，放弃暂时的安逸和程度较轻的痛苦，体验程度较大的痛苦，如此才会得到回报。现在承受痛苦，将来就可得到更大的满足感；而不谋求解决问题，将来的痛苦会更大，延续的时间也更长。

It may seem that the salesman who ignored such obvious problems was emotionally immature or psychologically primitive, but, again, I tell you he is everyman and his immaturity and primitiveness exist in us all. A great general, commander of an army, once told me, "The single greatest problem in this army, or I guess in any organization, is that most executives will sit looking at problems in their units, staring them right in the face, doing nothing, as if these problems will go away if they sit there long enough." The general wasn't talking about the mentally weak or abnormal. He was talking about other generals and senior colonels, mature men of proven capability and trained in discipline.

表面看起来，前面那个销售员漠视问题，完全是由于心智不够成熟所致，实际上，如同财务分析师一样，那个销售员也代表了大多数人的情况。曾经有位久经沙场的将军告诉我：“军队最大的问题在任何组织和机构中都同样存在，那就是绝大多数指挥官，只会呆呆坐在办公室里，眼睛盯着大堆问题，迟迟无法做出决定，更谈不上实际行动了，似乎盯上几天几夜，问题就会自行消失一样。”这位将军所指的指挥官，不是某些缺乏意志力的普通人，不是心理脆弱或性格异常的人，而是高级军官，他们资历深厚，接受过严格训练。

Parents are executives, and despite the fact that they are usually illpreprared for it, their task can be every bit as complex as directing a company or corporation. And like the army executives, most parents will perceive problems in their children or in their realtionship with their children for months or years before they take any effective action, if they ever do. "We thought maybe he would grow out of it," the parents say as they come to the child psychiatrist with a problem of five years' duration. And with respect for the complexity of parenting, it must be said that parental decisions are difficult, and that children often do "grow out of it." But it almost never hurts to try to help them grow out of it or to look more closely at the problem. And while children often "grow out of it," often they do not; and as with so many problems the longer children's problems are ignored, the larger they become and the more painful and difficult to solve.

父母同样是指挥官，其使命和管理企业一样复杂。正像军队指挥官那样，大多数父母面对孩子的问题束手无策，连续数月乃至数年都无任何举措，只可一味拖延。有的家长连续五年没有进展，不得不向儿童心理学家求教。她沮丧地说：“我原本以为孩子长大些，就不再像小时候那样不懂事，可局面一点儿变化也没有。”父母做出某些决定的确很难，随着孩子年龄增长，个别问题可能消失，但终归是极少数。在孩子成长的过程中，适当给予指导和帮助，多了解他们的问题，必然是有益的事情，问题拖得越久，就越是难以应付，甚至积重难返，解决起来自然更加艰难了。

Responsibility
===================